Hello and welcome to another tutorial.
We are going to continue our discussion on the Eclipse IDE external tool and we were talking about the
internal variables that Eclipse IDE has and we mentioned that what the way this works is that you put
the name in the braces with the dollar sign, right.
Reminds you of environment variables and these are like internal environment variables that Eclipse
understands and these are exactly these are work based on exact string substitution.
So for example, if I say dialer and then curly braces, the name of the environment variable and then
forward is like some other string.
This part that has this environment variable at runtime will be substituted with the actual value,
right?
And the main benefit is that these are the value of these environment variables can change based on
what, for example, what happens.
And one of the things that I showed you in the previous lecture was, for example, resource location.
We said that if you want to have an environment variable something, an expression that changes the
value based on the files that you select in the tree view of the eclipse, then you can use this environment
which is resource location or resource name, right?
So these are the most important variables.
I want to just quickly go through them Java type name.
This is very, very important.
Most of the tools that for example, Java, Java or the Java Java Java Command or the Native Image Command,
any tool that works on the class files, which is the fully qualified name of the class, if it's inside
the package, the you have to use the Java type name.
So Java type name returns the fully qualified Java type name of the primary type in the selected resource.
I'm going to change this actually Java class name of the primary type in the selected resource.
And we know that when Eclipse IDE compiles your application, the way it organizes your Java project
is that it has a source directory as RC and then a bean directory and the bean is a mirror of your RC.
RC has all the Java files or source files and then Bean is a mirror which has all the compiled file
which is the dart class.
Right.
And then Eclipse internally is aware of the class path, all the all the dependencies of your Java project.
And we know that dependencies have to be on the class path at the compile time if they are explicit
dependency because Java compiler requires that all the dependencies be declared.
The only exception is that Java also allows dynamic class loading.
You use the class for name for example, and then you pass the string.
Those things, those dependencies, those dynamic class loading, they are not checked by the Java compiler
at compile time because it doesn't know how to do it right.
So those dependencies that check for them are deferred to runtime.
And if JVM at runtime cannot find those specific dependencies, then it throws something like class
not found error or class def error or something like that.
So Java type name is very important because any tool that works on the basically class files that requires
that you feed it a class, file it, you have to use a Java type name.
So let's head to eclipse here in our Java projects, I am going to create now a new package, let's
say a Java native image, the name of the project, and we're going to create a class file.
So test class, right.
And let's have a main method here.
That's fine.
And then Eclipse gives us these and then see out and then hello.
All right, so if I run this, remember, as soon as you save this Java source eclipse compiler actually
compiles and creates a class file.
So in the package explorer you don't see the bean directory.
So the bean is hidden, you only see the Java files and the resource files, any other directory.
That is not a package that is not in the Z.
And then just remember how we distinguish between a package, which means a package means it contains
files that are part of the class path.
So and then the Java source files in the package get compiled.
That's a way of telling the Java compiler, hey, compile this file because it's inside this package,
right?
But if you have a regular directory that is not a package, then a Java compiler eclipse is compiler
doesn't really consider them for compilation.
They are not part of the class path.
Right.
So that's how we distinguish packages and etc..
Now if we look at the go to a navigator and look at our being directory, you see there is a bean directory
that mirrors the hierarchy of the Z or source directory.
It also has a directory which is a.
Which corresponds to our package.
And then inside it, it has the compiled version of the source file right in the package here in the
Z, we have the source file and here we have the class one.
And again, Eclipse compiler is very fast right now.
If I drag and drop this class file into the editor, I've configured it to decompile it.
We can operate with a class file viewer to just see the basically the byte codes.
And as you can see, the, the name of the type is the fully qualified name because this class is inside
the package.
And it also has a comment of basically which version of the JDK was used.
As you can see, I've set up my Java project to use JDK 17.
All right.
Now we want to see.
I want to select a resource, a source file in the tree, remember?
Source file.
But then I want to I want to use the environment variable of the eclipse that returns the fully qualified
name of the class file.
So in the previous lecture we create this dummy external tool, which is just the LS.
For example, we set the working directory to the project location and then actually I'm going to change
this.
Let's see if we can change this to echo.
Let's see.
Actually, this gives an error, I believe.
Let's go back quickly to the terminal, which echo I think Echo is in the bean or let's get the bean.
All right.
And then a working directory doesn't matter.
Project location.
Now, if you want to access the bin, we know that all the packages are in the bean folder.
There are all the classes and all the packages translate or mapped in a directory, right.
So the working directory you set it to, you can set it different ways.
You have to say to the bean directory of your Java project.
Right.
So we want to say that for example, we can use the project, location or work.
You can start either from the workspace or the project location.
Right.
And this returns the absolute file system path.
And then here I can say forward slash bean.
So at this points the this runs this command in the bean and then arguments we're going to say that
Java type name, right, Java type name and this returns the fully qualified the class file the name
of the class even though you select, for example, the source file test class, the Java E returns
a fully qualified and we can also see the command line here being echo Java native image.
So right now I selected these test class that Java, so it has been echo and then a Java type name gets
translated into the fully qualified name of this class, which is the package dot the class name.
Right.
Again, this is very important.
Java type name is very important and whenever you want to use it, because the fully qualified name
is with respect to the top level of your class path, which is the bean directory.
That's how Eclipse organizes your class files when it compiles them later on.
When when we use Maven, for example, you will said you have to point it to the directory.
That Maven after compilation puts all the class files so close.
Let's run this and it just prints the java native image test class.
Right.
So whatever class file did I select, let's say test class two for example, let's have a main method.
It doesn't matter if I select this as soon as it basically is already saved.
So Eclipse already compiled the source file and the class file is there.
If I select this one and run my external tool, it's going to print a fully qualified name of this class.
Right?
I'm running an external tool, which is the echo tool.
Now, if I don't set this to the bean directory, let's see what happens.
And now it cannot find it, right.
So variable reference, empty selection, something like that.
Let's try to run this again.
How it still works.
Yeah.
So the Java type name works.
I mean, you don't need to really point this echo command to the Bing directory, right?
But let's say now you actually want to use an external tool.
Let's say you want to use a different JVM, right?
So let's go to I think it's a library.
Library.
Java Java Virtual machines.
We can browse the file system.
So let's go to a library and then a Java Java virtual machines.
And then let's say we were running with JDK 17.
One way to run with a different JVM is to use an external tool which is not recommended.
I mean, there are better ways to do it in Eclipse ID, so let's say we want to run with JDC 18.
Right?
Contents home and then bean and our JVM is the Java Command.
So we are running with the JDK 18.
We have to point it to the bean directory and the Java type name.
Right.
And the Java type name is supposed to have the main method.
Right?
So if we apply clause, let's say we run this.
So if I run my external tool.
And could not find our main class.
Let's see.
Why is that?
So we're running Java and then a working directory is being.
So we are running from being.
Now again the problem is we the class path right.
So.
Uh, hyphen CP here, for example.
Let's see if this works.
Yes, now it works.
So we had to tell it manually to set the class path to the working directory.
This dot and then this dot now points to the working directory when you run this JDK 18 JVM and the
working directive we already set it to been, which is correct because class files are the class path.
The way Eclipse organizes your project is that the top level directory in your class path is being directory
and all the packages fully qualified name are with respect to this bin directory.
So this is one way to run basically with a different gvm, right?
Right now if I run with Eclipse Run Command, it runs with the.
Let's select this test class.
Ron.
Hello world.
Yeah.
So it runs with the internal configuration here in Eclipse, which is JDK or Gvm 17 or Java runtime
17.
If I run this way, the external tool is going to run with the JDK 18.
Right, you see here.
Now I can actually prove it to you because we already know that the Java has the runtime so we can check
the runtime version inside our Java source file.
So what we can do, we can say runtime runtime is runtime get runtime, right?
So basically this is a single turn, right?
And then we can do a C out runtime.
That's
basically version.
Let's see, runtime.
That version is a static method.
So we could just run it actually under runtime class itself.
So if you run this with the internal of JVM, it says that it's 17, right?
Ltz So we are running with a Java or Java runtime 17 actually, let's, let's do a string, a Java or
JVM runtime percent SW or we can just add it.
So plus runtime dot kid version or version.
So if you run this, we're running with Java 17, if we use the internal run of the eclipse because
Eclipse looks at the configuration for this project and right now it's JDK 17, right?
So the system library that we assign to this project is 70.
But now if I select this class or source file and then run my external tool, it's going to run with
the Java 18 OC.
So again, I want to understand one way which is not recommended, but that's one way to run.
With different VMs, you can define external tools and JVM command.
The external tool obviously is the Java tool.
We've seen this.
Java is the external tool in the being directory of the JDK.
And then the way you configure it, first of all, you have to set the working directly to the bean
directory of the Eclipse project because that's how Eclipse organizes your class files after compilation
Inside the Bean Directory.
There are also all the directories that point to the packages.
And inside the packages there are all the basically all the class files and then you have to tell the
Java hey, the class file hyphen CPP is here.
Or you can manually actually set it also to you can manually copy and paste this value project your
location being to here.
Right.
You have to tell the job, the class path is the being directory and then a Java type name and this
returns the fully qualified name of the class file because we know that JVM operates on the class files,
not the source files.
All right.
So this works this one way.
Now, one interesting thing is that if you create any file, anything inside a package, it clips actually
copies that file also in the being directory in the same folder, because now this file is considered
a resource, right?
Let's call it resource txt.
And then if I go and look at my being directory, you see that was copied also in the bin directory.
Again, anything that is in the packages in the Z will be mirrored in the will be mirrored in the bin
directory as well, just because anything in a package is considered a resource for your Java project.
Right.
Whereas anything in this directory is you see none of these directories that are not packaged or copied
to my to my bin directory.
All right.
So that's one thing.
Let's go back and look at the other basically environment variables.
So the Java type name, again, it's a class named class file, right?
Fully qualified name of the class project class path.
This is the second most important thing, right?
Returns the resolved class path of a project.
A project name can be provided as an argument if no argument is provided, the target project is the
project of the selected resource.
So what this means is if I go back to Eclipse, we can look at the class path.
Let's say I want to know what is the class path for any resource that I select.
Obviously those resources have to be in the RC and that is RC is inside some Java project.
Right.
So what I'm going to do, I'm going to say forward slash bean echo.
It's just echoes to the terminal, echoes whatever the string is back working directory doesn't really
matter.
And then I'm going to say that the project class path.
All right, so apply and then close.
Now, if I use any of these source files, anything here, even anything that is not inside a RC, inside
a package because price class path looks what kind of directory or file you select and then figures
out what is the Java project for that?
And then it prints the class path of that Java project.
So if I run my dummy, it's going to tell me that basically the class path is being directory of the
Java native image and then the being directory of another project.
The reason is that if I look at the actually if if you right click and then build path configure build
path.
I have given a.
Let's see.
Java build path and in project references I have the or basically let's see.
So the project nature is project references is a dev job.
So I have given this a Java native image, a dependency, right?
So in Eclipse one project can depend on the other projects and Eclipse knows that.
What it means is that Eclipse adds the being directory of the other project to the class path of this
current project.
So if I uncheck this so I don't have any dependency on the other project, if I select anything here,
any file, and then run my external tool, it tells me where it still shows the.
So let's see.
Why is it that still showing the.
Joe Editor Java compiler java.
Okay.
Yeah.
So it still shows that.
But now we're looking at the full class path of the.
Of our Java project right now we know that even in the source file we can look at the class path of
our project.
So let's do a count.
Let's add some separator and then a string, as is a system that get property.
And the property for the class path is java class path and then see out s.
So if we run this.
It tells me that there are two directories on the class path.
Right.
If I run my external tool.
It tells me the same thing, right?
So that project class path eclipse again inside the eclipse, it's smart enough to know that whatever
file you select, which belongs to a Java project, Eclipse, is already aware of what the class path
configuration is for that project.
And this will come very handy when we try to configure and extend our tool to run native image and compile
our Java applications to native executable binaries.
Now, I mean, I guess you at the moment you have a good idea of where I'm going with this, right?
For the native image, when we run from the terminal, we need a two very, very important piece of
information.
One is which class we want to compile, which basically a class that has the main method, right?
That's the entry point to our application.
And inside a Java project, you can have multiple classes that have main method, right?
So if I want to configure a single external tool that tells a native image, Hey, this class is the
one that has the main method I can, I want to either I want to select a class and then they figure
and let the external tool to automatically figure out that that class is the one that has the main method.
So we use the Java type name for that.
The other important piece of information that we have to give to the native image is the class path
of the project, because native image also needs to know all the dependencies of that your Java project,
right Java application so that it compiles all those class files to native executable binary and these
two pieces of information we've already seen.
And then the next one is the working directory.
Right.
And again, you have to tell the, give the native image class files and in order to do that you have
to set working directory in eclipse to the beam directory.
Right.
All right, so let's go back and quickly go through the other ones project name this returns if you
select any file in the tree project name returns the name of the Java project that that file belongs
to project location returns the absolute file system path to the project that whatever file you select
in the tree, the project location project path.
Okay, so there is a difference between location and path.
Path means relative to the workspace.
Workspace relative path of resource project location means the absolute filesystem path.
Right?
So they distinguish between these two in the in the in environment values of the eclipse because that's
sometimes you want to only look at the relative path to the workspace or sometimes you want to get the
absolute path right again.
Same thing here.
Resource location is the absolute path to whatever file you select in the tree view resource name.
It just returns the name of the file that you select.
Resource Path returns the relative path of the file that you select in the tree.
With respect to the workspace and workspace location, obviously this returns the absolute file system
path of the workspace, right?
Again, eclipse, whenever you want to run Eclipse, you have to select a directory which is your workspace.
All the jobs, all the projects, Java projects are organized inside that directory.
So I hope you enjoy this lecture and please stay tuned.
I'll see in the next one.